---
layout: page
title: "About"
permalink: /about/
---
<p>The Fusion Conclusion is an independent publication launched in November 2025 by <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-brunner/" rel="noreferrer">Dan Brunner</a>. It aims to bring fusion insider insights to the "fusion-curious" outsiders wanting to learn more about the developing fusion energy industry.</p><p>I aim to publish one new post every week on this cycle:</p><ol><li>In-depth essay on a broad topic on the growing fusion industry.</li><li>Fortnightly update on the latest happenings in the fusion industry.</li><li>In-depth look into a fusion technical area, often tied to the previous essay.</li><li>Fortnightly update on the latest happenings in the fusion industry.</li></ol><p><strong>About Dan</strong></p><p>I was the co-founding Chief Technology Officer of Commonwealth Fusion Systems where I managed the company's technology roadmap and intellectual property. I built and led the early team doing the conceptual design of SPARC fusion demonstration device as well as other smaller projects. </p><p>I earned my PhD in Applied Plasma Physics (the fundamental physics of fusion devices) from MIT and worked there as a research scientist before founding Commonwealth Fusion Systems. </p><p>Presently, through <a href="https://futuretech.partners/" rel="noreferrer">Future Tech Partners</a>, I advise investors, startups, and industry on new technologies with a strong focus on fusion energy.</p><p><strong>AI policy</strong></p><p>While I use today's AI tools to supercharge my research, copy-edit my writing, and debug my coding, I commit to publishing only my original ideas and writings, not AI slop. Any slop here is due to good old-fashioned human error.</p>
